---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "zabbix_user_directory_ldap Data Source - zabbix"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Fetches a Zabbix LDAP user directory by ID or name.
---

# zabbix_user_directory_ldap (Data Source)

Fetches a Zabbix LDAP user directory by ID or name.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "zabbix_user_directory_ldap" "corp" {
  name = "Corporate Active Directory"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `id` (String) Unique identifier of the user directory. One of `id` or `name` must be set.
- `name` (String) Display name of the user directory. One of `id` or `name` must be set.

### Read-Only

- `base_dn` (String) Base DN for LDAP search.
- `bind_dn` (String) DN used to bind to the LDAP server.
- `description` (String) Description of the user directory.
- `group_base_dn` (String) Base DN for group search.
- `group_filter` (String) LDAP filter for group search.
- `group_member` (String) LDAP attribute listing group members.
- `group_membership` (String) LDAP attribute on user listing their groups.
- `group_name` (String) Name of the IdP attribute that carries group membership.
- `host` (String) Hostname or IP address of the LDAP server.
- `port` (Number) LDAP server port (1–65535).
- `provision_groups` (Attributes List) IdP group to Zabbix role and user groups mappings. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--provision_groups))
- `provision_media` (Attributes List) IdP attribute to Zabbix media type mappings. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--provision_media))
- `provision_status` (String) Whether JIT provisioning is enabled: `enabled` or `disabled`.
- `search_attribute` (String) LDAP attribute used to identify users.
- `search_filter` (String) Custom LDAP search filter.
- `start_tls` (String) Whether StartTLS is enabled: `enabled` or `disabled`.
- `user_lastname` (String) IdP attribute mapped to the Zabbix user last name.
- `user_ref_attr` (String) LDAP attribute referencing users in group entries.
- `user_username` (String) IdP attribute mapped to the Zabbix user first name.

<a id="nestedatt--provision_groups"></a>
### Nested Schema for `provision_groups`

Read-Only:

- `name` (String) Name of the IdP group.
- `role_id` (String) ID of the Zabbix role.
- `user_group_ids` (Set of String) Set of Zabbix user group IDs.


<a id="nestedatt--provision_media"></a>
### Nested Schema for `provision_media`

Read-Only:

- `active` (String) Whether the media is active: `enabled` or `disabled`.
- `attribute` (String) IdP attribute value.
- `media_type_id` (String) ID of the Zabbix media type.
- `name` (String) Name of the provision media entry.
- `period` (String) Active time period.
- `severity` (Number) Severity bitmask.
